## Generating Python Objects

Normally, the Python interpreter ignores type hints.  However, the `pydantic` package will check Python type hints during application execution and raise exceptions on mismatches. You can use the `PydanticOutputParser` to extract values from the LLM response and use it to populate a Python object.  In this lab, you'll build a chain that will extract information about events building upon what you already saw about the LangChain framework.

---

* In `08-langchain` create a new file called `events.py`
* Import the `datetime` and `os` modules
    ```python
    import datetime
    import os
    ```
* Import the `BaseModel` and `Field` types from the `pydantic` module.
    ```python
    from pydantic import BaseModel, Field
    ```
* Import the `PromptTemplate` and `ChatGroq` types
    ```python
    from langchain.prompts import PromptTemplate
    from langchain_groq import ChatGroq
    ```
* Import the `PydanticOutputParser` from the `langchain.output_parsers` module.
    ```python
    from langchain.output_parsers import PydanticOutputParser
    ```
* A type that can be enforced by Pydantic must subclass the `BaseModel` class.  For this lab, you'll create a class that has three fields for information about an event.
    ```python
    class EventInfo(BaseModel):
    ```
* Create three `Field`s in the `EventInfo` class for `title`, `date`, and `location`.  Each of them has a type hint.  The `title` is a `str` (string)
    ```python
        title: str = Field(..., description="Name of the event"))
    ```
* The `date` uses the Python standard library `datetime.date` type.  Also notice the `description` keyword argument has the format to parse the date into.
    ```python
        date: datetime.date = Field(..., description="Date of the event (YYYY-MM-dd)")
    ```
* The `location` is also a string.
    ```python
        location: str = Field(..., description="Where the event takes place")
    ```
* Use the `from_template` function to create a prompt from a template
    ```python
    prompt = PromptTemplate.from_template(
        """
        Extract event information from this text:

        {text}

        Format:
        {format_instructions}
        """
    )
    ```
* Create an `llm` for Llama 3.3 70B on Groq
    ```python
    llm = ChatGroq(
        api_key=os.getenv("GROQ_API_KEY"),
        model="llama-3.3-70b-versatile",
        temperature=0
    )
    ```
* To parse the response, create a `PydanticOutputParser`.  The `pydantic_object` keyword argument is the `EventInfo` class.  The `parser` will populate an instance of `EventInfo` with data from the response.
    ```python
    parser = PydanticOutputParser(pydantic_object=EventInfo)
    ```
* Create a `chain` starting with the `prompt`, directing output to the `llm` and then the `parser`.
    ```python
    chain = prompt | llm | parser
    ```
* Recall that the `prompt` has a variable for `format_instructions`. This is a description of the structure of the response.  You can get this from the `parser`.
    ```python
    fmt = parser.get_format_instructions()
    ```
* Take a look at the format instructions
    ```python
    print(fmt)
    ```
    Run the application and notice that the format instructions have created a JSON schema based on the structure of the Pydantic object.
* Generate the response with the `invoke` method and pass it a dictionary with the text about an event, and the format_instructions.  Notice the `response` is of type `EventInfo`
    ```python
    response: EventInfo = chain.invoke({
        "text": "Join us at Scenic City Summit on June 19, 2025 in Chattanooga, TN for three days of workshops, sessions and a hackathon.",
        "format_instructions": fmt
    })
    ```
* Use the `response` to print the `title` of the event.  Notice that the editor leverages the type hints in the `EventInfo` class to provide code completion.
    ```python
    print(f"Title: {response.title}")
    ```
* Move to the `date` and `print` it.  Notice that since the `date` is a Python `datetime.date` and so you can call the `strftime` method to format it.
    ```python
    print(f"Date: {response.date.strftime('%x')}")
    ```
* And `print` the `location`
    ```python
    print(f"Location {response.location}")
    ```